# Decision-Making-Program-With-Analytical-Hierarchy-Process

This decision-making system applies one of the methods, namely the multilevel analysis method or so-called AHP (Analytical Hirearchy Process). The main steps in carrying out the AHP method are Identification, Analysis, Synthesis.
In the first step, identification, we need to determine what the goals are, what are the criteria, and what are the alternative choices.
 
In this system, the identification stage is to enter the number of criteria and the number of alternatives, then press the GO button to go to the next stage, which is to enter the criteria name and alternative name and press the input button. After all the criteria and alternatives have been filled in, it will enter stage 2, namely the analysis stage. Suppose we input 3 alternatives and 3 criteria, with the names of the criteria A, B, C and the alternative names X, Y, Z.

In the analysis phase, the first thing that needs to be done is to enter each weight of the criteria, then press the Compare button to issue a comparison table between alternatives for each criterion.
After the compare button is pressed, a comparison table will appear between alternatives for each criterion as shown above. What needs to be done next is to fill in each weight in the available tables, namely the weight of the comparison between alternatives in each criterion. After that, also fill in the cost of each alternative as in number 2 in the image above. If all the tables, both the comparison table and the cost, have been filled in, what needs to be done next is to press the Calculate Results button.
The last step in the AHP method, namely the synthesis will occur after the Calculate Results button is pressed, the result is as shown above. The program will generate conclusions rather than calculations using the AHP method, each alternative will be ranked based on the best to the worst. Every calculation in searching for eigenvectors or the normalization process occurs in the program, so they are not displayed in the eigenvector search process.